README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# movepub

<!-- badges: start -->

[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/movepub)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=movepub)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/inbo/movepub/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/inbo/movepub/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![repo
status](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#active)
<!-- badges: end -->

Movepub is an R package to prepare [Movebank](https://movebank.org)
animal tracking data for publication in a research repository or the
[Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF)](https://gbif.org).

To get started, see:

-   [Get started](https://inbo.github.io/movepub/articles/movepub.html):
    an introduction to the package’s main functionalities.
-   [Function
    reference](https://inbo.github.io/movepub/reference/index.html):
    overview of all functions.

## Installation

You can install the development version of movepub from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("inbo/movepub")
```

## Usage

This package supports two use cases:

-   [Make a Movebank dataset
    “frictionless”](https://inbo.github.io/movepub/articles/movepub.html#frictionless)
    with `add_resource()`. This is useful when publishing a dataset on
    e.g. [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org).
-   [Transform a Movebank dataset to Darwin
    Core](https://inbo.github.io/movepub/articles/movepub.html#dwc) with
    `write_dwc()`. This is necessary when publishing a dataset to
    [GBIF](https://www.gbif.org).

## Meta

-   We welcome [contributions](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) including bug
    reports.
-   License: MIT
-   Get citation information for movepub in R doing
    `citation("movepub")`.
-   Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code
    of Conduct](.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating in this
    project you agree to abide by its terms.

Commit message:

List "prepare your study" + move conditions to note

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# movepub

<!-- badges: start -->

[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/movepub)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=movepub)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/inbo/movepub/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/inbo/movepub/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![repo
status](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#active)
<!-- badges: end -->

Movepub is an R package to prepare animal tracking data from
[Movebank](https://movebank.org) for publication in a research
repository or the [Global Biodiversity Information Facility
(GBIF)](https://gbif.org).

To get started, see:

-   [Prepare your
    study](https://www.movebank.org/cms/movebank-content/archiving-movebank#general_best_practice_tips):
    guidelines on how data owners should prepare their study in Movebank
    for archiving, prior to using this package.
-   [Get started](https://inbo.github.io/movepub/articles/movepub.html):
    an introduction to the package’s main functionalities.
-   [Function
    reference](https://inbo.github.io/movepub/reference/index.html):
    overview of all functions.

Note that Movebank users retain ownership of their data, and use should
follow the [general Movebank terms of
use](https://www.movebank.org/cms/movebank-content/general-movebank-terms-of-use)
and any other license terms set by the owner.

## Installation

You can install the development version of movepub from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("inbo/movepub")
```

## Usage

This package supports two use cases:

-   [Make a Movebank dataset
    “frictionless”](https://inbo.github.io/movepub/articles/movepub.html#frictionless)
    with `add_resource()`. This is useful when publishing a dataset on
    e.g. [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org).
-   [Transform a Movebank dataset to Darwin
    Core](https://inbo.github.io/movepub/articles/movepub.html#dwc) with
    `write_dwc()`. This is necessary when publishing a dataset to
    [GBIF](https://www.gbif.org).

## Meta

-   We welcome [contributions](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) including bug
    reports.
-   License: MIT
-   Get citation information for movepub in R doing
    `citation("movepub")`.
-   Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code
    of Conduct](.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating in this
    project you agree to abide by its terms.
